Using Chrome developers tools, tests were run on the top 10 websites measured by the amount of users. The blue line in the waterfall tab indicates the time at which the page started rendering and the red line indicates the point at which all the components required by the page finished loading. After the red line, all the stuff downloaded is cached resources required by the main document. All these websites followed a general rule of downloading content for the user. First the index was downloaded which had all the information about the page and the links (scripts, images et cetera) attached and then the rest of the files.
For Google, after downloading the index file first, Google’s logo was the first to be downloaded followed by the script file and then the rest of icons in a webp file. After the initial render of the page, other script files and png that are not initially required were downloaded. 
Youtube followed a different approach by downloading the script files after the initial download of the main index file. This was further followed by downloading Youtube’s logo and the stylesheets required. 
Amazon and Yahoo followed similar fashion of downloading content for the web page in the order of main index file and the subsequent script files, immediately followed by webp files and the gifs that populate the user’s view. 
Zoom, Wikipedia and Shopify, all had very few files to be downloaded but had different orders of downloading those files. Zoom downloaded the script and json files first and the last element was Zoom’s logo whereas Wikipedia downloaded the logo first and the script files right before beginning render. Much like Zoom, Shopify downloaded the script files first and then the logo.png and font files before render.
Ebay and Reddit followed similar orders in downloading of the content and the type of content. Both the websites are filled with images which takes up a lot of time to download which is why these websites, after the initial index file download the script files and then few image files before the page starts loading. This gives the user time to look at the information at the top of the page and for the website to download the information that is found when the user scrolls. 
Facebook downloaded most of its files before the page started loading, starting from main scripts then followed by the facebook logo and the stylesheets and then extra images and fonts.
Javascript files are the last to be loaded in static web pages which are not webapps such as Wikipedia or Google’s homepage. This is because javascript takes a considerable amount of time to run  which would delay the display of other components of the webpage where scripts are not the biggest requirement. This also means that if the request is stopped before the script files are downloaded and run, some of functions like search and login will not function because the button will not register a function bound to it. 
